all right so I guess I will actually
start I you should get used to being a
bit more responsible like you and so yes
this is for educational purposes only
and so yeah if you have a problem please
go see your doctor but yeah thank you
um so my name is will Co is uh a lock
and yeah I'm 40 years old and you know
we met when I was in my psychiatry
residency about so I started at Harvard
about eight years ago nine years ago and
at that time you know I I was raised
Jehovah's Witness and so I was not into
drugs I had only smoked pot about five
times in my life and I was a believer
you know and what we were taught which
was that psychedelics were dangerous
they were illegal and they were
addictive and you know and so I got into
the mental health field I thought I was
going to be an academic researcher and
just just in case anyone's wondering I
did not have long hair I did not have
piercings I did not have jewelry back
then I think a lot can in for that and I
yes I was this traditional guy who was
like going through the hoops of life and
being like I'm gonna be you know if I
get all these degrees and I go to all
these great institutions I'll be happy
and I kind of hit like a low the second
big low points of my life and I was like
I achieved all these things that I told
myself I wanted to achieve and I was
still not happy and so yeah I went into
therapy for the first time meaning
receiving my own therapy and um the
story is that then I started doing
psychoanalysis and I was analyzing my
dreams and my childhood can you just
best explained us real quick about
psychoanalysis is OSs psychoanalysis is
a form of psychotherapy it's kind of the
most traditional where you're like
laying on a couch and telling your
therapist about what's going on
basically and so my childhood best
and kind of did the opposite of me after
high school where he decided to not go
to college you just worked and was in a
band and partied but after the financial
crisis in a 8:09 he ended up deciding to
go back to school so he's going back to
school into college his first year of
college as I'm like having this like
life crisis at my in my early thirties
and he gets introduced to psychedelics
and one in particular called DMT and it
convinced me to even read about it he
was like DMT is what's made in the brain
and it's what causes us to dream so I
was like what and so then I went at our
like our little search engine and I
googled this and I searched it and I'm
like oh my god it's true like all these
government labs in the 50s and 60s were
putting most of their psychiatric money
and research into psychedelics I'm like
that was the first time where I'm like
wait does the government lie to us or or
you know or they not at least only
always truthful and so you know I would
just say to you that within you know
another six months a year from that I
was just so curious and I connected to
the psychedelic research community and
got involved in the training and so I've
been trained by maps so for those of you
guys that don't know Maps is the
multidisciplinary Association for
psychedelic studies and they're the main
funders of the psychedelic research it
was founded by a guy named Rick Doblin
and it has completely 100% funded
psychedelic research from young
donations and just an interesting tidbit
as they succeed to be you know a
prescribed Abul medication it'll be the
only the second time in history a
medication was brought to the market by
completely by donations and so it's a
pretty big deal what's the first game
yeah
do you know plan B which is the plan B
is the medication
yeah which which will you know allow
someone to prevent in a pregnancy the
morning it's like the morning-after pill
is what people call it interesting
and so yeah that's kind of in so yeah
once I discovered psychedelics and read
into them I just got more and more into
it and then I was able to luckily have
an experience taking MDMA legally in a
therapeutic setting in 2017 which was
life-changing to me and this was part of
the training for maps for therapists and
I'm happy to talk about that and it's a
beautiful thing because I can then talk
about doing this psychedelic without you
know saying oh my god I did something
illegal and get in trouble as a doctor
and I think education is very important
around psychedelics I've also had a
number of experiences legally with
ketamine as well as a treatment which i
think is a wonderful treatment works
very different I've also had experiences
taking ayahuasca in Peru where it's
legal as well and so I can talk about
those experiences these days you know I
have a clinical practice in Southern
California and Los Angeles
I am a big believer in public education
I think everyone should know about these
medicines no had about how to use them
responsibly and no note that I call them
medicines I think when they're in use
for for healing you know I think it's
the most powerful thing we have in our
definitely in the mental health
psychiatric bracket in terms of
treatment and so it's very exciting to
be involved in this stuff and I provide
ketamine assisted therapy for many of my
clients so that's that's the only fully
legal if you want to call it therapy
with psychedelics that's available in
the US right now without being in a
clinical trial and yeah and I provide
what people call like psychedelic
integration therapy which means like if
someone has gone out to a retreat or has
done illegal underground therapy I try
to help them through the in process the
experience so it can be you know
hopefully a healing one for them
sure awesome man so thank you so much
for that introduction so generally
speaking when people come on stream like
I'll ask them sort of questions about
their personal life and and their
journey and things like that I you know
and since you're coming on sort of as an
expert I could ask you more personal
questions like I was curious about a
couple of things that you said
um one was that that was the second that
was like your you had a myth like a
second life crisis and so I'm curious
about what your first thought was and
then there's also like more kind of
expert oriented questions about like
what's the difference between DMT LSD
psilocybin ketamine ayahuasca ibogaine
like you know like and and what do you
think so kind of like more treatment
oriented questions or expert questions
or like like sort of like what your
journey has been more specifically what
do you do you feel like we should go in
a particular direction
sure I've just got to say something
because or else that's gonna distract me
but I just opened up this twitch thing
I've never been on it before and it's
like trivial like interesting interface
between all this stuff it's it's really
cool yeah anyway I guess that's what
makes me a Boomer I'm curious creameries
but I'm assuming it just means I don't
know yeah I don't know a lot of things
if you're a Boomer a Boomer is someone
who is respected and loved by the twitch
community basically yeah so twitch is
interface so so let me just explain one
or two things about twitch so twitch I
don't know exactly how many people we
have watching right now we can just look
real quick okay so we've got about 2400
people watching and then twitch also has
a chant which means that there's there
like people that are posting things in
chat like there they may be posting
reactions or questions things like that
and that's how we know whether twitch
chat is happy with what we're doing or
sad what we're doing I try to steer
clear of looking at numbers or twitch
chat while I'm actually streaming unless
I'm like interacting with them like
answering questions or whatever so right
now let's see what they're saying well
it's a boom right I don't have glasses I
can't read anyway okay fantastic see he
understands what a rumor is he's one of
us it'll fit in it'll fit right in he's
he can feel the boom Earnest inside but
so what do you think well do you want to
do you want to talk like a little bit
more
like about your personal journey or do
you want to like maybe start with more
questions or like about more details
around different kinds of treatment and
where you think the field is going sure
I'm happy to talk about you know I I
love talking about stories you know I
think stories bigger picture is what
leads to healing you know could I sit
here and talk to you about the you know
the brain MRI studies with LSD and you
know that that you know the default mode
network is suppressed during MDMA
therapy sure but but I think what people
really care about is why these things
work so much better than your you know
SSRIs Prozac etc and so I think stories
really matter in terms of what you know
what happens to people tell us and how
to heal for sure so you know my my first
you know big life crisis I would say was
in my late 20s I was a medical student
at UCLA and my dad had gotten diagnosed
with with cancer in in the middle of my
PhD time and so you know that was a
first big wake-up call of like you know
my dad was healthy it wasn't something
that was expected and it was like you
know that dreaded phone call as a young
man like you know the moment we learned
that we died it's like oh [ __ ] we
realized oh my god our parents aren't
gonna be around and so I got that
dreaded phone call and then I was you
know living in DC at the time working in
a laboratory and it was just a big low
point and you know my dad ended up
living about two years and he ended up
getting like rounds of chemo and blood
transfusions and but it really was ended
up impacting my mental health and at
that time I'll say so I didn't actually
decide to become a psychiatrist until
the end of medical school which you know
we don't have to get into the details
but I at this point in my life like
mental health was not on my radar I've
never been to therapy like I didn't even
think about you know I didn't know what
psychology was or Freud really so I I
just got
down and then unconsciously because I
was like hiding my feelings and didn't
know how to process them I ended up
developing this really bad flying phobia
which lasted two years
there was a two-year period where I did
not fly whatsoever
and it was really embarrassing to me at
the time when I was I was actually
finishing my PhD towards the end of my
dad's life when he was dying and I
actually ended up taking a boat across
the Atlantic because I was too scared of
flying and then when I got to New York I
took a train across the country to go
back home because I was too scared so
the flying phobia had just taken out
alkalete hold over my life and and so
yeah that was you know my first big
crisis and then but you know like I
didn't know how to heal and so I was
just like okay power through keep on the
goals like okay I graduated then I got
into Harvard and I'm like okay that's
what you know it was a few years later
after that where I hit my low because I
was just like I'm putting hoop after
hoop after hoop in
when I sure yeah sorry go ahead I just
switched to these two terms I call them
perceived values versus true values to
me true values are the things that we're
born with that we you know the things
that we want to how we want to express
ourselves in our lives what we want to
spend our lives doing and then I think
of person where it's like culture
religion family you know capitalism
tells us X Y Z this is what you're
supposed to do um this is what you're
supposed to do in life and then I think
this you know in perceived values can
become so ingrained that they seem true
and so what I realized for myself was
that I was all these coops that I had
put in front of myself they weren't
making me happy because that's not what
I actually wanted to be doing I didn't
want to be a professor and how did you
realize that
well it's interesting cuz I'm actually
fast forwarding quite a bit so I mean
the actual realization of that didn't
come until the end of residency which
you know when I knew you which was
around 20 2014 and so it was through
therapy it was really through looking at
myself looking at my life so how would
it be all how on earth can we understand
like what how does one develop a phobia
of flying and like what happened with
that because you said it lasted about
two years so I presume that you still
don't have it like what's your
understanding of what happened there so
with you know I I think it was about you
know so I actually flew home when my dad
was diagnosed when he collapsed and that
was from DC to LA and again it was that
dreaded time like went right on kayak or
whatever and I'm like let's get the next
flight out and I remember in my mind
meaning I don't know objectively if it
was true that it was like the bumpiest
worst flight I'd ever been on and when
we were in the middle of you know the
flight across the u.s. very bumpy and
the pilot went on the you know on the
intercom and he was like oh sorry there
was a plane that flew too close above us
and I
just like are you [ __ ] kidding me
like like you guess that happens like
come on guys and then so I you know so
sorry I'm just like getting distracted
but it's which thing is so that's
fascinating I'm gonna get it not look at
it don't look at it will resist what how
are you looking at on your phone yeah
it's in it's on it's not on life Isis I
don't even know what these words mean so
what happened was then you know I I
started associating right instead of
letting you know we're going we're
covering a lot right now but you know
what we want in a healthy situation you
know when we experience a trauma is that
or you know what we call a trauma is
that we want to be able to fully express
the emotion physically it's like if you
if you have a clear glass wall and a
bird flop eyes into it right and it
collapses it's done for a second it gets
up it shakes it like chirps and then it
moves on with its life then it starts go
hunting worms again it doesn't sit there
and it's like mmm ruminate II oh [ __ ]
like I've gotta look out for for other
glass now for the rest of my life it
like it has the experience it shakes it
off and it moves on and our culture you
know I think of six basic emotions we
don't know we can get into it later if
it matters but we have a cluster of
emotions that we have started calling
that we've started judging as being weak
right and to me those are sadness fear
and shame it's like you know the if
you're feeling those they're weak you're
not a man and so we don't get that
opportunity for catharsis right because
we're told from a young age boys don't
cry hide it you know and so then we
start locking in all of these
experiences in our body
year after year experience after
experience and they build up and and
that has to go somewhere and so you know
what happened was that I had all this
stuff all these feelings about my dad
dying and I didn't know where they
expressed them I didn't have people
that would listen that could listen the
way I needed them to listen and so it
built up in and then so the psyche the
unconscious like tries to put that
somewhere right and that's somewhere
sometimes is you know depending on your
genetics and your upbringing
looks like alcoholism or it looks like
an eating disorder it looks like PTSD
you know for me that cluster of things
at that moment of my life
looked like a phobia and and I prefer to
think of mental illness in these
categories of just like again because of
your unique traits it expresses this way
but I don't believe in like I used to
believe but I don't anymore that there's
these like hard evidence DSM diagnosis
that like are genetically predisposed
and you can never be healed from them
like psychedelics have shown me that
like almost without exception the
paradigm of mental illness that we have
created is especially the categorization
is a lot of baloney you know and I think
that you know we can do really deep
healing by revisiting you know these
past experiences and so that's where
psychedelics come in right because
psychedelics you know what I'm basically
saying is we need to allow the emotion
and the the movement to come to the
surface so that we can deal with it so I
like to think about psychedelics as
evocative therapies as opposed to
suppressive therapy right because like
he's impressive you can even see that in
our in our in our the categories of our
medications the psychiatric medications
antidepressants anti-anxiety what are
those say anti sadness aunty fear if
you're feeling something numb it down I
don't want to see it
right and we as a mental health you know
field like that's that's we're not even
taught how to deal with increased
emotions we're taught how to suppress
them and that's where psychedelics that
is why they're so effective like we're
seeing you know MDMA and psilocybin have
both been lit labeled and we can talk
about what this means in a second the
FDA has labeled them as breakthrough
therapies which means they get like an
accelerated approved
through the FDA that's the only two
times in history that that designation
has been used for a mental health a
primary mental health condition and so
you're seeing we're seeing rates of like
60 70 plus percent of people healed
after one to three treatments with a
psychedelic with psychotherapy in
between and like you know as well as I
that that those numbers are like unheard
of yeah in psychiatry you know so a good
number in psychiatry is like 30 30 35
percent yeah you know yeah so that's
that's crazy man you know it's so
interesting so I think a lot of why
we've grown is because our my personal
approach is like very aligned with yours
so I think of I don't think a mental
illness is an illness like I don't think
these things are broken within people I
think these are adaptive mechanisms that
have kind of gotten out of control so
the way that I understand anxiety for
example is we all have a future
functioning capable of capacity within
our brain to predict problems in the
future right like that's what our brain
is designed to do and if we anxiety is
simply that future problem predicting
capability like gone out of control and
like you know even depression or I
struggle with some things like
schizophrenia which in my clinical
experience have been like more like an
illness like I have trouble seeing sort
of the value of that especially with
some of the negative symptoms like
cognitive you know cognitive problems
and things like that but I think for a
lot of these kind of neurotic conditions
or feelings of like depression or
anxiety or whatever like they're they're
just our bodies and minds way of trying
to express something and we don't let
ourselves express it and a lot of the
work that we do on stream the reason
that we kind of ask personal questions
and I think part of the reason that
we've grown is that we see a lot of
catharsis like on on stream so we talked
to people we sort of evoke emotions we
ask important questions and then people
oftentimes have catharsis which i think
is a good word to
describe it where they will sort of have
like this emotional moment and the other
thing by the way we'll just in terms of
like things that we were taught like you
know I remember working with
psychoanalytic supervisors and stuff
like that and then them talking about
therapy is like a really long-term thing
like patient had a breakthrough after
like two two-and-a-half years and then I
remember thinking is like like a
resident you know because I'm I'm the
one who's being taught so I'm not an
expert I'm like what the [ __ ] were you
doing for the first two years like if
they had a breakthrough it like three
years and one of the things that I've
come to believe is that like I don't
think that our paradigms as well as like
medication I don't think that you know
psychotherapy needs to be this long and
protracted process that that you know
lasts years and years I think that you
can use certain tools so I personally
use meditation to evoke a lot of emotion
and and like when you empty your mind
like whatever's down there so you have
this suppressive mechanism right that
keeps all these emotions down and then
when you empty your mind it creates a
vacuum and whatever's down below comes
up on its own and and so that's been
sort of my personal experience and also
my experience teaching meditation of my
patients is that like it accelerates the
rate of therapy which I doubt it
accelerates it at the same rate as is
psilocybin and things like that but you
know I mean I I'm aligned with what
you're saying but yeah so a few things
you know I on this anxiety piece which i
I've come to as a meditator I think you
yeah I'd be curious to get your thoughts
on this but I've started essentially
grouping you know what we call mental
illness into two places anxieties or
depressions because what we want we what
we want to be in theory is fully present
we want to be in flow right right I
imagine you know when we're engaged like
if we're on a on the first date when
were you only like the person or if
you're playing a game and you're really
into it you're not thinking about stuff
right you're just in flow or where you
are and so I like to think of anxieties
of as the category meaning I'm not
present because I'm living in the future
I'm worried about something
or depression I'm not present because
I'm worried about something in the past
that happened and interestingly I think
with with psychedelics what we're give a
lot of thought to it is are certain
psychedelics better for certain things
and we'll get to that and I'm glad you
asked that in the beginning and you know
I like that you mentioned meditation you
know I think the things that
psychedelics facilitate memories
emotions etc that we need to bring up to
heal they're only doing something that
we are completely capable of doing
anyway like the human body the psyche
the Spirit is completely capable of
doing that type of work it just is
facilitated by something like
psychedelics but it can also be
facilitated by a meditation or it can be
facilitated by holotropic breathwork etc
etc yeah great those are the two points
I wanted to make so first of all I agree
with you completely so i intent alil 'no
sin to future-oriented and past oriented
which I call worry and reverent which I
I mean no surprise that it's basically
exactly what you said that that because
I even try to in my language I found
that it's useful to step away from
anxiety and depression
because they are medicalize terms so I
use worry and regret so if you look at
like literally if so I a lot about this
stuff so if you guys have watched its
own stream like literally the cool thing
about anxiety is that like if you look
at any anxious thought it is it is when
your mind is not in the present it's in
the future and some people even say well
I have anxieties about the past but if
you really tunnel down into that what
they're really doing is something
happens like oh I went to a party
yesterday I looked dumb so people won't
like me and won't invite me next time
and they'll think that that's like
worrying about the past but it's not
real technically it's not worrying about
the past if you really pay attention to
your thoughts you're worried about the
future consequences of a past action and
so all worry is future-oriented mind and
all regret is past oriented mind and
literally if you can be in the present
with your mind anxiety cannot exist in
order for anxiety to exist you must be
think
in the future and so part of what I
think is really powerful is like people
don't realize that like they think about
anxiety is something that you have to
you know grapple with and treat and and
things like that and my my general
approach to anxiety is twofold one is to
dig into the underlying things that make
you anxious and this kind of goes to
what you were talking about about like
you know there's a certain amount of
personal stuff and there's a certain
amount of like environmental stuff that
causes mental illness to manifest in a
particular way so in the Eastern system
of Vedic psychology they talk about
these things called some scars which are
essentially like unprocessed traumas and
that some scars manifest as particular
things they're like they're kind of like
you know subconscious psychological
conflicts I think like the psychoanalyst
kind of had a sense of this and so you
can kind of work on the root or what you
can actually do is change the function
of your mind in the moment which is
completely ignoring the root and
literally turn off the anxiety by
focusing on the present and when I work
with people with like procrastination
and things like that like you can sort
of deal with the subconscious origin of
your fears which is a more long-term
process and in the moment you can learn
how to like literally shock off or
overcome procrastination by
understanding like the mechanism of how
mind works but anyway I'm with you a
hundred percent in terms of like your
foam formulation it's like I think great
and I also agree with you by the way and
this is something I'm curious about
that you know one thing that I realized
some time ago is that any substance that
we put into our body is only capable it
doesn't create anything it only
activates things right so if we think
about our alcohol like that activates
gaba receptors like cannabis activates
cannabinoid receptors it doesn't create
something new in our brain it only turns
off or on what's already there and so
any experience that you can have through
a psychedelic it's my belief and this is
kind of where I'm curious that you can
attain something similar through
meditation and I know that you know when
I talk to people who have had psychosis
has had like psychedelic experiences I
can relate to them through my personal
spiritual experiences which sound varies
in some ways and also very different I'm
kind of curious do you think that
because this is something that that
people have sort of asked about and
there's been some debate about do you
think that anything that you can attain
through meditation you can attain
through psychedelic use and vice versa
yes I just want to put a footnote on
mentioning something about psychosis
because it's something that it just came
back to me that you had mentioned yes so
yeah I think we sounds like we
completely agree on that that you know
yeah things are just unlocked by
different experiences external to the
body or internal to the body right like
so yeah we can put things in like unique
even together that is basic as sugar and
whatever we eat for meals as you said
alcohol um I really like that way of
looking at it I haven't haven't quite
worded it that way and you know I'm just
trying to think of like my mind's at the
same time like wait can we add something
that wasn't there which is interesting
oh there ain't just a quick tangent
because like what about sensory
stimulation like the vision or touch can
add something to us technically right
that's external like a trauma so so
could a chemical do that I don't know
anyway it's it's it's more of like maybe
an intellectual topic but you know the
piece about psychosis is that I actually
I do believe that that you know perhaps
that at least a good amount of what we
call schizophrenia or psychosis could P
could be just an incredibly complex
defense mechanism meaning you know I I
haven't worked at least anyone who is
deeply deeply suffering from
schizophrenia who hadn't had a really
really rough set of years in their in
their early life and you know I would
think of it as you know the uh the
unprocessed traumas again because of
that person's mixture of genetics and an
upbringing end up creating a reality
because that created reality as painful
as it may appear to someone on the
outside could be more less painful than
having to sit with what actually
happened and I know that that's you know
kind of what the early psychoanalyst
used to believe so people used to do
long term therapy with schizophrenia not
that it worked very well we didn't see I
mean that it that it had very good
results but quite honestly there aren't
many studies with psychotherapy that
work and you know consistently had a
higher rate with any mental illness and
Stingley stan grof who is someone who
can I just jump in for a second so like
our discord seems to be lagging like a
ton oh there we go seems to have fixed
itself is there anything you can do to
improve your like Wi-Fi or like position
or anything like that I think everything
is off except for let me see the other
thing we can try doing is using a
different platform okay I mean all my
devices are off of Wi-Fi except here
okay all right
no problem let's let's keep going sorry
you see you were saying that
schizophrenias could be an incredibly
complex defense mechanism yeah and so
you know stan grof who probably most
people here have not heard of is he's
still alive I didn't he's nearing 90 he
was a he was it's like in some ways the
The Godfather of psychedelic therapy and
so he he was you is a guy from the Czech
Republic and he was a training
psychiatric resident all right as a
plane flight ain't flying overhead if
you hear some noise de said if he was
gonna he was took me a minute but you
know so Stan was training as a
psychiatrist when Albert Hoffman the the
scientist who discovered LSD was
and to put it into practice and so Stan
was one of the first people who actually
did legal psychedelic therapy and he
ended up doing between it's estimated
three and four thousand LSD sessions
with patients completely legally and
half of those were in the United States
and just for anyone that's wondering
that's like unheard of like that is a
large large number of people to have had
experiences with Stan interestingly his
first wife actually had schizoaffective
disorder which is which is a kind of a
milder form I would say of schizophrenia
and and in part of those 3,500 cases and
in Stan's personal experience with his
wife and other people they actually
treated numerous people that had what we
would nowadays call schizophrenia and he
reports that and he has reported that he
had a lot of success with people right
and these were not large-scale you know
double-blind placebo-controlled trials
because those dead-like
placebo-controlled trials didn't even
really start until the 1990s and so I
think there is some evidence from within
you know the the psychedelic research
from that time period that actually
supports that that you know a lot of
schizophrenia at least should be looked
at in the future in terms of potentially
being treatable by psychedelics you know
I don't think it's anything that you
know we'll get into like in the next few
years but you know maybe in 10 or 15
years it's worth looking at because what
if this group of people we've
essentially in some ways the
capitalistic system has said these
people are so useless to the
capitalistic machine to make money so
they're like the homeless population
like what if even 20 percent of those
people could be living a pretty normal
life if they had a you know a big
significant healing experience with a
psychedelic like what does that mean
about us as ultra in our society hmm
yeah it's interesting so I think we so
I'm just wondering like there were a
couple of general threads so you
mentioned kind of this this thing with
your phobia and we kind of got up like
we sort of bounced around a little bit
so what ended up half
like with your like what's your
understanding of so you you kind of said
that you know the phobia was sort of a
manifestation of like internal emotions
that didn't have any other way to come
out and and that to sort of makes sense
to me because I'm kind of envisioning
like this pile of stuff that you know
would affect so many different
dimensions of your life so it's almost
like your brain kind of like packages it
up and just gives you like a very like
intense slice of emotion with like one
thing so it kind of packs all that
emotion into a particular fear so what
ended up happening with you are you
still afraid of planes and and if not
like what changed not at all I mean I
it was gradual so I started my personal
psychotherapy around my dad and that
stuff in 20 I guess I was probably 2014
2013 and I continued it I took a little
break in the beginning of residency
because the first year of residency was
so challenging and then I doe back into
therapy you know when I had the second
mental health crisis but you know this
whole thing about catharsis and the body
etc I had no idea you know what that was
back then right I was of a lot of people
you know the mind of a lot of people
were I'm like you know illness is only
the mind right right where I've started
thinking that the mind and the voice in
the body are actually three different
levels of healing that are necessary and
that simply heating the mind is one step
but it's not the whole step you know and
in the beginning I what do you mean by
the voice so I believe you know that
were these physical beings right and I
guess I'll give you the examples so
there's a book called The Four
Agreements I'm not sure if your if
you're familiar with it I thought it's
like the spiritual wellness you know
anyway they talk the guy talks about
these four agreements and the forth
agreement I think is being impeccable
with your word and I remember thinking
about that and I and I didn't agree and
I was like you know especially this day
and age of people posting
quotes in memes etc like in many of them
in my you know circle of friends and
colleagues or even myself
it seemed hypocritical because some
people would post some beautiful quote
and then act like an [ __ ] the next
week and I'm like there's this like this
this discrepancy and so I intention
knows because to me there's one level of
understanding it's like I know here what
I need to do and how I need to you know
treat my fellow man but then when I get
triggered I'm gonna behave a different
way so I actually liked you know sort of
uh adjusting that agreement with
actually being impeccable with your deed
it almost it felt more powerful to wait
and see what people were like by the way
I got to know them and I saw them
behaved towards me other people over the
course of time and so to me is like but
you need the mind right you need the
mind to heal because that's like a first
level the voice I add because I think
our voice is how we make ourselves known
to the world how we announce ourselves
it's like this is who I am this is what
I want this is how I'm gonna engage with
you and there's a level of healing
that's a difficulty that that is to like
express what we feel right and we know
there's a whole history in psyche you
know we can get into psychology why that
can happen but you know it you know if
if I'm doing if I'm treating you know
say a young woman who is in an abusive
relationship right and through the work
together that we do in therapy she
realizes oh I don't want to be an
abusive relationship before I want to
stand up for myself but it's another
level to go home if she's like living
with that person and vocalized that and
be like I'm leaving you I don't need
this anymore
right so it's one level to here and
he'll hear that but then we have to
actually be able to speak from the heart
and you know lastly it's then - like the
body why I think of that as differently
and it's at two levels am i moving
literally with integrity and and and
allowing my body to just be but I also
think that you know saying that there's
a healing level to the body is am i
spending my time moving
about the world in a way that I most
love am i spending that time in a job
that I really care about that I'm
passionate about am I you know going to
college just because my parents told me
to do we took go and I actually really
[ __ ] hate this and I would actually
rather be doing something else and so
you know and it's harder to act and move
because I feel like as we heal things in
the mind it's like we're we're fighting
a narrative within our mind but actually
once we go to the level of the voice and
the body those tests are almost outside
of the mind and they're out in the real
physical world and I think there's a
different level of of difficulty doing
that yeah I mean that once again it
words from my own heart but so let me
ask you a question well like so let's
say that someone is fighting these
struggles right so like this is you're
talking about essentially like twitch
like this is who we are
we're people who are not moving our body
in a way that is like aligned with our
true values where people who don't
express our emotions and we may even not
like we may not even be clear in the
mind like in fact I mean I think many
people aren't so how do people start
sorry that you cut off a lesson so how
do people start okay so this is um no
this is great we're getting like deep
into the philosophy so if you know so
the other thing that I like to think
about is so the things that need to be
healed or realigned are the mind the
voice the body and I like to use the
word alignment because what are we
aligning to right or in the psychedelic
world you hear the term psychedelic
integration but I've never heard of a
good definition of what that actually
means it's almost like a buzzword now
but because what are we integrating to
and so I like to think about the heart
right I think it happened you know that
you know not to get I don't know how
many people on here follow chakras etc
but you know the heart is the part of me
that I think about note that knows like
like it cannot get off course you know
it's kind of like the GPS that's
installed in us the moment we're born
and it is like this you know
we're starting here this is where you
want to be at the end of your life or
this is how you want to live with your
life and that part to me I like to think
about it again it is it will not fear
and the things that can veer on or off
are the mind the voice of body and I
actually think of emotions then as not
being like I don't think of don't yeah I
want to get rid of sadness or I want to
get rid of fear because to me he you
know the what we call painful emotions
are actually the GPS signal like it were
if we're driving and we go on the wrong
Street
the GPS is like no turn around here make
a u-turn go back you're going on the
wrong direction
and so to me sadness fear shame are
emotions that tell us you're going off
course come back to where you want to be
but we began learn to judge the emotions
we've learned to to to want to get rid
of them where I'm like I actually want
those things because if I didn't have
anxiety and fear and sadness when I was
like living this life I didn't want to
live I would still be doing that and I
would be miserable and so so when I when
I think of the healing I think of like
getting back on on that path and so I
like to think about you know when the
mind boughs to the heart when the voice
boughs to the heart when the body boughs
to the heart that is the flow state to
me so so it was like good saying like I
don't know what my heart says how do I
find out how do I find that out
beautiful and so and that that is a
challenge right and I and I would say
it's listening to the body so the
emotions are also not to me the body is
where we feel emotion and that those
signals are all also never wrong a
problem can be mixed in there because
once we start adding Western medications
right if we start feeling again
depressed or sad and we take
antidepressants it can numb us so then
we can lose connection to our body or if
we take stimulant
right a lot of people are on ritalin or
on adderall and adderall increases
anxiety so all of a sudden like the
normal signals from our body are getting
all these mixed-up things from what many
of the doctors out there are prescribing
people so I would say step one to
reconnecting to our hearts is to try
when safe is possible to try to build a
connection with the body and start
trusting it again and being like my but
there's nothing wrong with my body it's
just trying to tell me something and
that's bad in the Western world as a
whole it's a new concept so I'm gonna
try to push you a little bit on this
because I'm gonna like envision
something for a second okay like if
you're talking about stories so I want
you to imagine a 24 year old guy who's
living at home with his parents in his
parents basement finished two and a half
years of college before dropping out
plays video games all day
his overweight doesn't eat healthy
doesn't know what he wants and is deeply
unsatisfied with his life but feels
absolutely stuck
anytime he tries to go out into the
world it hurts
anytime he thinks about his life it
hurts what does that person do how does
that person begin he doesn't even know
what he wants or okay so I would start
one of the things that I am big on right
now is is watching the mind and starting
by saying you are not your mind so I
listen to narratives very closely when I
am working with a client because you
know and the reason I mentioned this is
because you said and I believe that many
people out there believe I don't know
what I want and and this comes from the
area of like I think we create our
reality based on our thoughts and if I
approach the world say being like I
don't know what I want that supports
that what you know that basically says
my body's not I I don't have a
connection to my heart I don't have a
connection to my body so first I would
start saying you know I feel like it's
it's difficult to know what I want right
or I'm learning how to how to
how to figure out what I want so you
know I would say that most everybody
also has a certain number of things that
they do enjoy maybe it's a small number
of things but I would start by saying ah
when I have had these experiences in the
past or when I have these experience
nowadays it may only be 5% of my living
day but these things have brought me joy
you know what you know why is it why
doesn't my life look more like this
and so that's trying to just you know
piece together the puzzle so one would
be like a practical just like well can I
spend my more of my life you know doing
these things that I like so that's one
level yeah it's interesting it's it's
hard a little bit but I like I like that
you're pushing me on this and you know
for me I was actually really overweight
I'm open about this I've liked some
pictures out there or I'm like hey Devon
drew pounds more than I weighed right
now about 15 years ago you know and so
you mentioned the weight thing because
that was in some ways for me a way of
ignoring my body right I was like
feeling discomfort or anxiety and I
would eat so another way of actually
trying to make choice points and what we
do and how we spend our time is saying
ah if I am doing a behavior and that
could be like porn that could be
spending a lot of time you know too much
time on a game or something like there's
a level where we usually know like this
is fun or I'm doing this to escape I'm
doing this to ignore something
so another thing become aware of when is
my behavior shifting towards perhaps
just wanting to ignore what's happening
out there because that could usually be
a choice where a choice point was
possible you know I my friend how did
she lose the weight by by doing the
healing it happened it was very gradual
you know I first I actually I was living
in England so I moved to England to
start my PhD and this is an interesting
story
so I weighed 235 pounds at my maximum
and I'm like 150 155 right now but when
I
lived when I moved to England I was at
235 and it's funny because in grad
school in England you have a lot of
foreigners coming in and yep two major
categories you have Americans and you
have Europeans and British food is
really unhealthy so it's funny though so
the Europeans that go to grad school in
England end up gaining a bunch of weight
because the food that's served is really
unhealthy but the Americans end up
losing weight because food is portioned
at school and so in order to like keep
feeding myself I would have had to ask
for double portions and I was like too
embarrassed that happened to correlate
with me just doing getting out of
medical school and having people
actually respect me intellectually and
it was it was a time of just like
feeling appreciated and so it was kind
of both of those things happening at the
same time you know so that in some ways
started my healing even before my first
you know big big mental health crisis
but that's to say it's just like again
it's building the relationship with the
emotions in the body and being like okay
like I'm avoiding this by doing this and
and and then once we can identify some
of those it's like okay well why am i
avoiding this is it because I'm scared
am i afraid of being rejected by friends
or girl or or whatever and then and then
looking at that mean like if that's
something I can work on because I would
actually really rather be over here
doing this but it's scary to go from
here to there this is easy right
comforting myself with food I know it
works or comforting myself with again
porn are comforting myself with this it
works but in the short term right but
where I want to actually have my life be
is over here and to me that's the
healing work how do I get back to here
to trust you myself to building my
confidence to to feeling like you know
all of us at some age we're like you
know life is a miracle and I can achieve
anything and then the world outside of
us starts making ourselves doubt and so
how do we then build that back up as
adults and being like no I am capable of
pretty much living any life I want to
live
yeah it's interesting I'm just
remembering actually we had an interview
on Wednesday where it was kind of
bouncing around for a while but then the
person I was talking to said this one
sentence that for some reason just
really bothered me and and and she said
something like I don't have a voice like
people don't listen to me or people
don't yeah and and that was something
that I for some reason it resonated with
me and I took issue with it and I really
challenged her on it that her words have
no meaning and and that it was it was
weird it was like kind of a random thing
which usually is like what happens and
when we talked to people on stream is
like we're just kind of bouncing around
for an hour and then like something
happens where we catch on something and
then some kind of catharsis comes out of
it and that I think was the start of her
catharsis a couple of days ago so it's
fascinating I think a little bit about
voice and and I I really like the way
that you frame that you know the
negative things that we feel but if
someone says I don't know what I want in
life the negative things that we feel
are actually signals that are pointing
us in the right direction right and and
it can be something as simple as like I
don't want to be ashamed of the way that
I look and and so you can sort of
suppress that through video games or
medications or other things or you can
evoke and sort of sort through that and
use that as your navigating compass to
like get back to where you really want
to go and make a positive change which
is I think a beautiful way to put it so
I'm kind of curious yeah and I started
gonna go ahead it's gonna say I think
each emotion has a healthy version of it
in an unhealthy version and the I guess
maybe like a healthy game or an
unhealthy gamer yeah boomer joke and no
one's gonna think no no but but we'll
just to jump in for a second that's
exactly why we chose the name that we
did because like everyone is talking
about video game addiction and they're
talking about it is is like a one
unidirectional negative thing like a
couple months ago Trump said something
like video games are the reason that
school shootings happen and you know
people demonize video games and stuff
that and and my goal is not to like I
don't think that it's like an
abstinence-only kind of thing right it's
like if someone's addicted like is
addicted to sex like our goal is not to
make them celibate our goal is to help
them be like a healthy person like an
integrated person someone who enjoys
games and derives pleasure out of them
but also that the games don't get in the
way of like all of this other [ __ ]
that they don't become exclusionary and
and so I mean I'm glad you kind of
picked up on that because that's
absolutely those precisely the
inspiration behind what we're trying to
do we're not really even treating video
game addiction we're just trying to help
total our people good yeah that's to me
what leads to some of the initial stuff
anyway like I'm you know yeah I've never
played video games really because
honestly I suck at anything but I
yeah we what makes you feel like your
video game playing is inadequate well
why do you think that hosted me therapy
or do we are we gonna do therapy in my
game addiction no on your avoidance of
playing video games so why you feel like
like Nintendo is what I had in
elementary theory and like I just sucked
it all the fighting like Aaron would
kick my ass and it made my self-esteem
just drop like I just was horrible okay
no all right god oh well so so healthy
and unhealthy right so I would say what
is healthy you know why would I you know
I think there's a healthy version of
shame and there's an unhealthy version
of shame there's healthy sadness there's
unhealthy sadness the healthy and
unhealthy for me comes from the choice
that we make after experiencing it it's
the part of free will of being a human
being that is one of the coolest parts
of this larger video game that we're in
called the human experience like if I
have shame over something and that shame
leads me to go back onto a path that
leap that is in the line with my heart
that's healthy shame if I experience
shame over something and I feel worse
and then I end up
doing behaviors that that make me
disconnect from people like diving into
alcohol or something else then it's
unhealthy shame because I'm using it to
further pull myself away is the way I
like to do it I like to believe that
everyone's trying their best and
everyone wants to be in alignment and
and you know and I think there's a
tremendous amount of judgment from the
outside world so when you were talking
about this you know this conversation
that you were having earlier in the week
you know you know I think I'm like knit
again when I listen to narratives you
know narratives are usually another
beautiful sign of where the root of the
problem is like if someone's like you
know I remember myself I used to tell
myself and I still struggle I would say
like I'm single and I'm dating and I
like I still like I think you know
ultimately you're such a catch are you
trying to hit on me no but maybe one day
you know one of the things that you know
I used to tell myself and I'm still
working through at some level is like I
know you know if I go to a party I I
would you know I uppal years ago I would
be walking into the party being like oh
this is gonna be one of those parties
where I'm gonna like see someone a girl
I like and I'm not gonna talk to her and
then I'm gonna go home and feel shitty
about myself or oh I shouldn't even go
to that party cuz like these people who
were cooler than me are gonna be there
and then like but what I realized is
like I don't know I'd like to think of
these three positions right so and years
ago I was in his position of and then at
some point I started talking myself out
of it being like oh my career is more
important you know dating is a waste of
time you know if it's not helping me
towards this goal but what I was
realizing there was a narrative I built
for myself that narrative was I don't
want to be in a relationship and I don't
want there sorry I'm not in a
relationship
and I don't want to be in one the
position I want to be in is I want to be
in a relationship and I'm in one mmm
but that wasn't happening there's this
position of pain in the middle which is
saying I admit that I want to be in a
relationship and I'm not in one mm-hmm
but the less acutely painful position on
a daily basis would be to say tell
myself I don't want that
like I'm not capable of that so then
that narrative starts saying I'm gonna
hide I'm gonna shrink myself I'm gonna
make myself small so what I think of the
healing path it is it is necessary to go
through this middle experience but it's
really hard because usually at some
point in our life we built a life around
ourselves that supports that that
narrative of here right at some point I
was surrounding my friends that were you
know that were cooler than me or that
felt that they were better than me and
then at some point I was like as I was
doing the healing I'm like all these
people like if they're not supporting
like Who I am in my heart goodbye and
that and that was one of the harder
things as I transition through my
healing step after step is trusting
myself it was saying I know what's right
for me and all these people around me
are a lot of them they're wrong and that
was a big step of trusting myself and
and I think as a young man if I try to
think back when I was in my early 20s I
think that would have been a big one is
to just is to really just learn you know
to have emotions to express them because
like men especially are you know again
if you if you're sad if you're crying if
you're scared you're weak and I'm like
you know up until when I started my
healing seven eight years ago I hadn't
cried in like 15 years and I will say I
cry most you know at least once or twice
a week and I love it I'm where I was
living in New York City up until
December and there was many points in
the last year that I was living there I
would be on the subway its crowd in rush
hour I would see a cute girl or whatever
and if I was going through something and
I was sad I let myself cry and you know
and it felt so good to be like I don't
have to hide anything like I am just Who
I am and it maybe seems paradoxical but
through that like I wasn't I was just
more and more free to be who I was you
know I mean and I was just like [ __ ] all
this like I am this human being I have
emotion
and yeah my life has been only better
you know but it's step by step and
awesome yeah thank you so much for
everything how are you feeling right now
really good yeah I really love like I
think about my Dharma and why I'm here
and to me it's it's to be a healer but
you know the kind of like when we
started I that's why I love stories
because you know I realized after some
time like talking to my patients or
after giving a public talk or something
that people come up to me and especially
men and I love it when they do this cuz
they're like oh my god thank you for
saying this like that's me and I'm like
I started realizing this is everyone and
so that's when I started being much less
afraid of being me cuz I'm like I'm
myself and this is another thing that I
think about is like you know some some
people so I talked about my traumas or I
talked about like I gave a talk actually
last December about how like like my
penis size and when I was like younger I
was like super self-conscious about my
penis size and like I never hear guys
talking about this and it was
interesting because it's one example
where there's two things that happen
after I give a public talk and I'm open
about something people or they'll email
me and they'll say one I'll either say
thank you for being strong or number two
they will say thank you for being
vulnerable and I realized that depending
on where I was in my stage of healing
something those that one or the other
used to feel true but once I had my real
catharsis after you know whether it's in
with my therapist or whether I have you
know I was in an ayahuasca retreat is
both of those stopped resonating because
I'm like I'm not actually being
particularly strong I'm just being Who I
am or number two I'm not being
vulnerable like vulnerable to what if I
if I tell someone that I had a flying
phobia if I'm on a date or if I tell a
girl like hey when I was like you know
for a lot of my adult male life I was
like self-conscious about my penis size
and that girl decides to like not date
me
like that's not vulnerable like I would
actually thank you like I wouldn't even
want to be dating someone who who would
who would leave me for that so I
actually think of it as a favor like it
not even then I'm being bolder bomb just
like thank you like like don't wait by
time yeah absolutely I mean I think it's
beautifully put and I think that's what
people you know that's where people want
to be can you tell us a little bit about
the ayahuasca retreat yeah so ayahuasca
it's interesting so you know maybe that
we can talk a little bit about a
different shirt different target
psychedelics and and first of all you
know I wanna I want to say I like to
think about psychedelics there's five
general like I think legitimate uses of
psychedelics and legitimately meaning
they're distinct uses of them so I think
of healing which we're talking about any
second would be kind of spirituality or
enlightenment third would be recreation
and fun fourth would be kind of like
exploration of human potential or
wanting to think of new ideas and fifth
would be abuse or addiction and I don't
again I'm not someone who judges anyone
but I just like to tell people will be
clear about why you're using it that's
all we need to do like don't say that
you're gonna go out and just do it at a
festival and that equals healing there
is mixes between them right fun if you
have a really fun connected experience
that can be healing or you know
spirituality enlightenment is on the
continuum of healing but I think it's
useful to think of them that way so
along the lines of that so I also like
to think of the different categories of
psychedelics as being there they're not
they're also on a continuum meaning like
the in effects are very different you
know you have something like MDMA which
I like to describe as I mean people call
it a heart opener right it's a connector
you there's a trusting feeling when
you're diving into trauma I also like to
say that MDMA stays on the plane of this
consensus reality meaning for the most
part 99.9 percent of the time it's gonna
have some you know the experience you
have has something to do with this birth
to this death you know meaning it does
not get what we call transpersonal or
non ordinary on the other end of the
spectrum is Iowa
where you will have people have
experiences and they'll say oh my god I
relived a past life or I had my death
than my rebirth or you know I was
connecting with spirits that were
talking to me about my past you know
dead relatives or something like that
and so those are kind of on opposite
ends of the spectrum and and you know I
I just like to have people at least know
that basic because if I'm someone who
just wants to like feel less depressed
feel less anxious and say I come from a
relatively conservative background like
right I was I was Jehovah's Witness and
so even though I had left the church
when I was in my teens the history of
that trauma stayed with me so for me to
go straight into something like
ayahuasca would be a big deal if I just
want to feel less anxious because like
like to get all sorts of other
experiences like spirits and stuff I
wasn't ready for that and so you know
we're something like MDMA which is more
gentle and again it just stays on the
plane of this reality I think is you
know an interesting way to think about
it okay so now to actually answer your
question
so ayahuasca for those who don't know
there's a lot of it in the media and
it's it's a mixture of a bunch of
different plants that comes from
Amazonian culture so the Amazon in Peru
or Brazil or Ecuador or Colombia and
it's a it's a psychedelic tea that plant
healers used to use or that still use
that has been around for a thousands of
years at this point it's thought and you
know some Westerners went down I think
it was like in the early 90s and then
got connected with the tribes tried this
tea and we're like oh my god this helps
so much and so it is an incredibly
powerful healing tool and it is like my
personal like I don't want to say
favorite favorite it's just my preferred
tool for healing myself right now
because it's like now that I've learned
to work with it it is very powerful and
it's out there a lot in and you just
want to be really mindful like of all
the ayahuasca retreats because there's
all sorts of advertisements and people
claiming it's going to do XYZ for you a
lot of them at this point are in it for
the money or the the people facilitate
the experience don't really know what
they're doing they don't emphasize like
the preparation of the person in the
week's calm or the you know help after
they they're just really in there to get
people in you pay us a two or three
thousand dollars and then you go home
and you know there's only one or two in
the world that I completely trust
because you know I I really think that
all these other things that we're
talking about are so important to the
healing process and the psychedelic is
like this it's powerful but it's still
only like a little step in the tool of
your of your own ability to heal
yourself so so can you tell us a little
bit about like the other ones so you
said that you know MDMA is not quite as
trans personal and sort of enhances
trust you know has very promising uses
for like preliminary trials for like
PTSD or something like that and kind of
enhances the therapeutic relationship
ayahuasca is very transpersonal has more
of a spiritual kind of experience what
about things like ketamine psilocybin
ibogaine yep LSD that would literally
take another hour but let me at least
summarize so ketamine is an interesting
one you know it's interesting because a
it's the only one that's legally
available right now B by the way how our
audience is from the EU about ah
interesting
yeah actually ketamine I believe is also
legal right now in the EU I don't know
how many actual mental health
practitioners are using it my guess
would be very few and the ketamine is an
interesting one it comes from its
historical use has been in anaesthesia
and so it's an anesthetic because it
dissociates and meaning it dissociates
the body from the mind and if you get
complete disconnection you can cut into
the skin because you're not going to
feel pain and you can do surgery about
twenty years ago now there was an
orthopedic surgeon who was doing a bunch
of procedures on his patients and then
decided to look at his data and then
found just by chance that the people who
were depressed and suicidal who
he used ketamine with we're feeling less
depressed and suicidal and that's how it
really entered the knowledge of
psychiatry because it was just found
that oh my god this happens to work I
mentioned that because ketamine is on a
gradient right like you would have to
use really high doses to do complete
anesthesia on someone and that is not to
me the area where we want to be for
psychedelic healing um I guess I maybe I
want to introduce this this concept of
the what we call the liminal space the
word isn't important but basically you
know if we think of ourselves as here as
a human being with a body with an ego
that's like me and my isolated again
mind and body you know I like to think
I'm also that place that we look at deep
in spirituality religion or even without
those like like even people who are say
often agnostic or like at least there's
something there could be something
greater so I don't like to make it you
know denominational so there's this
place that most people believe you know
is that place that we come from and
where we will go after we die so there's
these two positions and I like to think
about psychedelics can connect you on a
continuum from one to the other and some
of them do it very intensely and some of
them do it gently or more gradually and
I happen to think that the powerful
healing aspect of psychedelics is when
we're on the liminal space meaning you
have some awareness of this and you have
some awareness of this and if you can
ride that then you can do the healing
work there and so that's a long-winded
way of saying like ketamine and you know
I think all psychedelics dose matters
along that continuum but ketamine is one
where it's very important and because
it's getting more use and it's out and
there in the media like I'll assure you
99.9% of people doctors using ketamine
don't understand what I'm talking about
right now and they're just like okay
well let me just inject this and we'll
charge people $500 or whatever like this
it's a it's a really intimate science of
how this works and so I try to actually
help people stay on that liminal space
right because it's like how
how can I you know again have access to
both of these things at the same time on
the other end of the spectrum the smoked
version of ayahuasca which is called DMT
or there's this other compound that
people refer to as toad because it's
it's five Meo DMT which is if you like
there's this Sonoran frog in in Mexico
where they used to use this frog
medicinally or they still do some some
indigenous where you milk the I think
it's the salivary gland and you can get
this compound it's that psychedelic out
of out of the toad and those two the
smoked versions are the most powerful
psychedelic that you could ever
encounter you go from here to here you
you start going into it intensely within
15-20 seconds and you are completely
here for about I don't five to eight
minutes but again it's weird because of
the five to eight minutes don't matter
because up here time time ceases to
exist so I've had people that experience
it and they're like I experienced every
single event from the beginning of time
to the end of time during that that
absurd observed outside time that was
five minutes you know and I'll mention
that because I rarely now find a healing
usefulness of going from here to here
like doing this is it interesting is it
magnificent you know can it remind you
of you know the bigger picture sure but
you still got to come back and like work
with these you know these narratives and
these painful things in everyday life
and so I'm someone who actually is much
more of an advocate for lower doses and
it's just you don't see that much out
there right now because people part of
what pulls people to psychedelics is the
stories oh my god like did I wasps guy
and I saw this like Panther didn't
appeared and it like converted into my
grandmother and you know people tell me
those stories and I'm like well okay but
how does that help you in a daily basis
you know yeah absolutely I think that's
it's a great point I mean I think it's
also interesting to kind of think a
little bit about staying connected to
like the person that you have to come
back to and if you have an experience
that is completely unrelated to the
person that you live
of your life as like it's gonna be hard
for that experience to actually help you
in some way you know yeah so we're we're
along that continuum is like psilocybin
and LSD I think of is kind of right in
the middle of the continuum but again
these are all these are dose based right
and so you can get it actually a
beautifully ideal LSD or psilocybin
space that rides the liminal but um you
know I think it most dose is that you
know even if people use like double a
normal dose you're still yes you're
still riding the limit I like like with
those two and so then it becomes more of
a time preference right LSD I don't
think is ever gonna go down as a
consistent psychedelic therapy cuz it
lasts so long you know it's like a 10 or
12 hour experience and it'll never fit
like you know the nine-to-five work
world of my dog no doctor doc doesn't
really work 9:00 to 5:00 but you know
it's not gonna work for just the
healthcare profession we're something
that's why you're like MDMA you know
maybe things could potentially you can
get them down in like six hour sessions
sure and that's another place where
ketamine is actually powerful if it's
injected and it's done in a medical
environment you can be in and out in
like 90 minutes to two hours so okay so
we'll I'm wondering like I have one or
two other questions for you but like
maybe what we can do is hop on discord
and I'll walk you had through how to do
that in a couple minutes I just have one
last question for you so let's say like
they're gonna be like so first of all be
prepared for you know the the flow of
people you know googling your name at
this point you may get a bunch of
requests and if you need help with that
you know we can I can I can try to help
you with that
afterwards I have to deal with thousands
of people contacting you for me I did it
thank you yeah of course we have to have
you on but so so let's say like people
are interested in this right so like
you've been talking about psychedelics
and they're people who are watching our
stream who are like yeah how do I start
like how do I do this this all sounds
wonderful what do I do about it
so it's interesting I will honestly say
there isn't
much that is too helpful out there right
now it honestly it's something that
we've talked about what I want to do
soon but again I'm a Boomer so I don't
know how to do it is I actually want to
start putting out educational videos out
there for people that just take them
step by step in the process and and so
hopefully in the next like six months or
so right now be open like most of what I
what's Google about me is my clinical
website silent I don't really have room
for new clients right now but at some
point I want to link that to you know
notice I want to do this pretty soon in
the next two or three months and I
actually want to put out a priest URIs
to help people understand like it all
likes how to do them responsibly etc etc
um I mean there's really yeah there's
not really much I can point to out there
I mean Maps is an interesting thing to
look at just in as their organization
but and yeah I mean they'll have
information on conferences and stuff but
again if you followed this conversation
today like honestly like it's it's this
is much deeper than any of the stuff out
there that that you can find and so um
so what I'm hearing is that there isn't
really like a good clean way for someone
to there's not a phone number that
someone can call where they can find a
therapist take MDMA kind of graduate to
ayahuasca over time and that that's that
infrastructure hasn't been formed yet no
you know but yeah it's like you know
again and the reason why I really
emphasize I like to talk the way I talk
is because I don't it this isn't hey
there's there's a lot of nuance but it's
not so complex like I and like Rick
Doblin the founder of maps I'm not
someone who is like psychedelic healing
and therapy should only be done with
doctors and psychologists you know I
think people should be free to explore
their own consciousness if they're not
helped hurting other people and so I
would say if you're you know set in
setting is a term that's thrown out
there a lot meaning you know the
experience of a psychedelic I think is
determined in some ways by set setting
and dosage meaning set is like where the
person is like mentally where they are
in their stage of lie
you know is this a huge peak of anxiety
right now because maybe I want to wait a
week or two before trying it so if you
can manage where you are setting is like
where I am taking the psychedelic and
who I'm with am I gonna have a sober
friend that I really trust can they sit
with me for six or eight hours and and
are we gonna do this you know at
someone's house and it's quiet or out in
nature and you don't want if you're
doing something for healing don't do
that in the middle of a concert or a
show because that can turn really bad
right it's so many other people and
influences dose is the third one like
you know if don't don't overdo it you
know and so if you start gently with all
three of those this is how you learn how
to do it right at some stage that's what
I did right because there is still no
training process for psychiatrists on
how to do this a lot of this was me just
going out and experimenting finding
ketamine doctors who treated me and the
early ones I'm like I would never go
back and I wouldn't recommend them and
then just learn in the process I've been
to more ayahuasca retreats that I cannot
recommend people to go to then ones I
can you know so what I'm trying to do is
like you just put together my experience
out there for people to try to hopefully
have them not have to go through the as
much trial and error as I had to sure so
I think unfortunately what I'm hearing
is that like I know a lot of people out
there I get questions about psychedelics
a lot and you know some people think
that because it has this powerful
transformative potential they kind of
think like oh if I go to a white
ayahuasca retreat I'm gonna be fixed and
I'm hearing the very opposite that
there's a lot of nuance there's a lot of
growth there so a lot of like we're
turning to the person that you are and
that this is not really like a magic
bullet yeah definitely not a magic
bullet because I actually I mean I could
I think I got at least five emails this
week that were like I went to an
ayahuasca retreat I did this and I feel
a hell of a lot worse like in it it's
really sad because that is only in my
messages that are about that are only
increasing in the last six months year
and and yep you know we want to be
purple you know so I actually think the
best thing to do is if you can get
say a cluster of again this is just for
educational purposes if you can get
three or four people who you really
trust friends that you can be open with
that you know that you can cry in front
of her you can at least be open about
you know micro dosing is the whole topic
we haven't talked about but it's
basically taking small amounts of
mushrooms like a 10% dose a 15% dose and
say you do you know if I were to you
know maybe take that with a close group
of friends and we just get together on a
Sunday night I guarantee you it's less
it's less jarring than the first time we
ever got like drunk or passed out you
know it's just now we're like used to
drinking but that first time where we
got really drunk if you think back was
probably pretty damn scary yeah you know
but it's Tufted in the culture we're
like again a 10-15 percent microdose
would be so gentle compared to that you
know and so I think you know again just
creating potentially your own safe
setting to do things and explore your
consciousness you know so over time
unfortunately will I've had similar
emails and and one thing that I'll let
people know I've actually encountered
people who have PTSD from using
psychedelics so they'll develop anxiety
disorders or will be actually crippled
and disabled after having some very very
difficult experiences during trips so I
think you guys have to be really really
careful absolutely so will if you've got
you know it sir also you know try to not
not build the story kind of as you were
saying that LSD equaled my suffering
right it's LSD plus difficult things
that came up that I couldn't process led
to this suffering meaning you don't have
to necessarily be terrified of going
back to that place if you can set up
things for yourself in the future where
you know you have more support
absolutely man so if you've got time
what we're gonna do is just hop on our
discord and then give other people a
chance to ask questions sure all right
so I'll walk you through that process
okay so let me just we're gonna set that
up we're gonna take like a why don't we
take a two or three minute break
[Music]
you
endure for an hour
okay cool
essentially oh it coming today messages
in this channel
I think at the bottom says like I don't
have permission to send messages in this
channel
hey hi I can hear you hi dr. Weil hi dr.
kay my question is how do you know if
you're in a good space mentally to make
use of psychedelics to hear from trauma
and maybe even understand yourself
better
it's there one more time sorry I I was a
little thrown off by I thought it was I
was gonna see something good
oh no problem my question is how do you
know if you're in a good space mentally
to make use of psychedelics to you from
trauma and understand yourself better
you know I would say it's
um it's a great big question first of
all and second I would say in terms of a
good space I would say oh can I
am I in a really bad or dangerous and
then if you're if that's no meaning if
you're suicidal for instance never
or if you're in a really big cry and you
have no one to really reach out to not a
time to take psychedelics no otherwise I
would actually say you know hey can I
make changes again I have people in my
life that I trust that I can talk to
about my experience and it could even be
with me during it it would be more like
can I met what can I maximize an
experience that is out to be good you
know cuz I you know every time I go into
one have a pretty good amount of anxiety
and fear you know but I don't
necessarily think that that's an
unhealthy thing but to basically be able
to go into something and say I respect
it enough because difficult can come up
is a good thing to have healthy fear you
know so does that help her
yeah that helps so if I understood you
correctly it's to have a good sense of
where you are and in life in terms of
like if you're not an any extreme and to
go in with the healthy amount of maybe
even fear is that oh yeah so I mean I
also heard him kind of say like having
the right support structure right so
like I'm envisioning our 24 year old
who's sitting at home and playing games
all day like I don't know that that
person has the right support structure
to help him make that experience like
productive right cool thanks for your
question
thank you or is he just like ready for
round two
it can people see me or noses voices
voice only okay oh sorry hey hey I'm
sorry I was hearing the stream hello
thanks so much for the whole the whole
show it was amazing my question is
basically this I'll do a comparison to
make it like better to make it feel more
like understandable but it's basically
like this there's healthy choices we can
make in the setting of therapy or
something in in the pursue of getting
better like like healthy dieting like
maybe exercise and how would the use of
psychedelics fit here and what I mean by
that is basically if you if you do
exercise maybe you have a better like
cardio respiratory situation maybe you
you can have or and then in case of diet
you can improve your diet and maybe you
can feel better because of the diet and
how would psychedelics do maybe how they
change in the brain or how would they
change basically your your either your
consciousness or how you see it it's
basically that thanks
yeah and so yeah I think of psychedelics
as one of the tools
Deeley in a whole box that we have with
many different tools of different
varieties that we can use at different
times of our life
Plus through those ups and downs you
know cuz I've done a tremendous amount
of healing in the last seven or eight
years I still have time from time to
time that I struggle you know it's much
less than it has been before in my life
but it's some still come up and so I
think and just think of them as one of
the tools in your toolbox I think is the
way to do it and and and you know I
think just having a variety of things to
go to is the ideal place and never bling
that one thing is gonna be the answer to
all of my problems because there's a lot
of people that are like psychedelics
like a percent everyone should do them
and I actually don't believe that you
know I think that some people could
could find the air healing tool could be
meditation or could be else that that's
not so good
you
I don't mean to be like like super like
oh my god but I just wanted to ask
i I can't understand that is it is it
true and I agree with that I just my
question was more of like how did two
works or how so well I think he's asking
what's the mechanism right so like
running improves our cardiovascular
health effects are like insulin glucagon
balance increases are based on a bottle
of great what's your understanding of
the mechanism through which psychedelics
affect change okay so I would say that
unlike what you'll read out there is I
don't think it is the neurotransmitters
it is not is not serotonin and fixing
serotonin levels I really love to think
of this as the catharsis a stored up
motional trauma because you know I kind
of think about like life is a movie room
at any one point in our life we are
accumulation of every single moment
that's ever happened to us
pink of like if there's slides in that
movie reel that have not been fully
expressed emotionally slides have more
of an impact on our everyday life as we
go back and we can heal these right I've
never said that this your this is gonna
make you forget something that's
happened or make it go the impact of
that past thing on your current life
will be much less and so I think of it
you know as also this is a new paradigm
of thinking it's molecules in cells it's
actually a psychological way of healing
and catharsis okay thanks so much man
now I understand thank you that was
great
you're welcome great questions awesome
man thank you there is some misc we're
ready for the next
[Music]
you do
can you guys hear me yes well I actually
have a question about panic disorders
and anxiety is there a way to do
psychedelics safely if you have like
panic disorders or are prone to be fee
be afraid basically
um would say well I'll share that I
suffered from panic disorders from my
flying phobia so I never had a panic
disorder hanok attack until the middle
of my flying phobia and they continued
for some time
after I started my healing work and
they're gone now I haven't had a panic
attack in
years
so I will say you know as long as better
everything is medically safe and it's
like a true panic attack it's not it's
not some other you know cardiac disorder
um they yeah because you know a panic
attack is I kind of think about as an
elevated level of fear right something
in the past has in care therefore that
part is playing a bigger game you know a
part in our everyday life so something
is legitimately fearful today if I
almost get run over
amplified because of this past thing and
so then it puts the body into fighting a
panic attack
oh you know I just think that normally
when we have these we're not in a
position to really be held or we're not
being held emotionally or that we don't
have an understanding of this and say
the original trauma and so I actually
think psychedelics can
broad statement numbness recommending
this for you you know MDMA you know for
people with PTSD so the main clinical
studies right now for MDMA or Molly or
ecstasy is with other people more on in
the non-medical world has been used for
PTSD and and so many of the patients in
the studies have had panic attacks and
have had them healed from from you know
ambien and I want to also emphasize
something that I didn't say clearly is
that you know III think about
psychedelic assisted psychotherapy I
don't think of it as psychedelic therapy
meaning psychedelics are you know one
part of a comprehensive long-term
therapy relationship so in the maps MDMA
trial for instance you take you're doing
therapy every week for four three times
over the course about four months you
take MDMA but but really the foundation
of the healing is is this extended
psychotherapy
right so um yeah that's great actually
so will what I'm hearing you say is is
that like so the short answer is if you
have an anxiety or panic disorder your
personal experience right so you're not
making a medical you're not medically
advising people but you're sharing a
personal experience that you had a
phobia and you used it and you found it
was helpful and secondly that it can be
done but the the cornerstone of
psychedelic assisted therapy is the
ideas that the psychedelic does not do
the therapy in and of itself you just
don't get high and/or heal that there's
like a process I mean what I'm hearing
you say kind of time and again is that
like this crack kind of expands your
consciousness allows you to experience
things in a different way in order to
really facilitate that healing you have
to translate those experiences in a way
that like affects your daily life and
that's usually done through the right
kind of support network and it can be
medical but it also is not exclusive to
medical people like you've seen
experiences of psychedelic assisted
healing with people like shamans or
other friends or people that you can
trust is that a good way to put it so I
don't know if we have one thing I didn't
talk about and but maybe I'll mention
actually an equation to come I think
that equation is the emotional memory
selection you're cutting out a little
bit but yeah I'm not sure what to do
about that but it's weird cuz I think it
was better on the video call I'm not
sure why this is can you try saying that
again
maybe we'll just wait - next okay why
don't we why don't we take one more
question maybe we can hop back on a
video call and you can share that
equation with us and then we'll end does
that sound okay okay we'll take one more
question thanks Jordan good questions
ready for the next one I think and they
were good oh great okay perfect okay all
right we'll I'm gonna call you again on
discord okay okay so you should get a
call right now and then you can tell us
your
like
before explaining it to him Oh God can
he join
well I abandoned him in ER oh you made
it
awesome will can you hear me
there we go okay can you turn on your
camera perfect tell us there's a beat
like I feel like this is important so
tell us this equation thank you not this
is actually it's whatever I judge me I
won't just fight like well I didn't read
many of the messages on Twitch but just
based on the questions and the
engagement I think this group of people
really gets it so I really yeah been fun
to do this so yeah I'm happy to actually
go into this and so you know I think
this catharsis thing is again this
really came from from my experience of
my own healing and so I think of three
things that are necessary for emotional
catharsis or release is that if we have
the emotional memory of something that
happened come with the narrative memory
meaning the the body experience of the
emotion plus the memory of you know
something that happened early in life
that that fits that situation plus the
third critical thing is is an empathic
setting and for me empathic is very
different from sympathy right you know
sympathy is like me telling a story
about kind of getting bullied and
someone's like that must suck like that
you got bullied I'm sorry but just okay
like some random person on the street
right where I think of empathy is when
something hit like when we have an
interaction with someone where we feel
that that person understands our
experience he understands our experience
and often that's not even verbal so it
does it's like the word sometimes can't
even distract but we're just like this
person gets me like like they know how
hard this
and when those three things happen I
think that's when tears come when when
the body can shake when the fear leaves
the body and you know just in case it
isn't clearly connected that usually
help is [ __ ] up to begin with because
the people who are supposed to be
empathic to us parents brothers and
sisters friends weren't so then that
release didn't happen it's stored in the
body and that's where the set the
setting thing is important in the set
setting in dose because if we can
recreate an environment where we are
with psychedelics helping emotional
memory and narrative memory come
together and then we have a setting
which is M Pathak that's why we get
these huge catharsis and people are like
you know this thing I was walking around
with for 20 years is now gone
and so I actually think it's a very
simple equation and it's why I'm so
passionate about education because you
know I actually think most of the people
that are psychedelic therapists and who
call themselves a psychedelic therapist
out there don't understand what I just
said and I think it's really simple and
I think you know in the heart the hard
part is that culture is not empathic
right now right we don't live in a
society that's in topic and so if we can
actually heal society and just become
more empathic people we get rid of the
the need even for psychedelics right
because I think ultimately it's it's
this screwed-up culture that we've been
living in that caused all of these
discrepancies to begin with inability to
to express emotion well well so first of
all dude I'm with you 100% let me just
make sure I understand so it's sort of
like having kind of a mental sort of
experience of emotion the the bodily
experience of emotion and then having
empathy which I think you're right the
people here get it because I think so
the funny thing is that our tag for
healthy gamer like our tagline is AoE
healing and AoE means area-of-effect
and so there's this idea in videogames
can you hear me I lost you use an area
of effect
healing ah so there's this idea in video
games that when a character takes damage
like there are some characters that are
healers and some characters that take
damage and so what you do is you target
a particular character and then you cast
like a healing spell and then you heal
that person if they're like being
attacked by a monster and they're there
are some things there are some spells
that are area-of-effect so anyone within
a particular radius gets the benefit of
the healing spell and the interesting
thing about us is that like we're about
a Oh a healing because I think the
reason people find this helpful is
because they feel empathy for the people
that come on stream so when when I am
talking with an individual somehow
people feel they resonate with what they
see they resonate with like the
experiences of another human being and
they themselves I was really skeptical
about this and some people post about
this kind of stuff on Reddit and the
internet and they kind of say that oh
like the stream is like really changing
me and it's helping me and I'm confused
because I've never really thought that
you know I just find it hard to believe
that you can watch something on the
internet and be changed and the really
fascinating thing is if you like tunnel
down into it I think they're feeling
that empathic connection and and so it
makes a lot of sense to me and it's a
big part of I think what we what we try
to do here and what we're some sort of
fumbling our way through and the the
last thing will I just want to say cuz I
know I know you've got to get going and
I want to be respectful your good times
thank you so much for coming man I think
it's been awesome having you I think
you're able to really talk about this
stuff
in a way that very few people can sort
of from a scientific expert as well as
like personal experience as well as kind
of clinical practice about like
implementing with with actual people and
trying to see change and healing and one
of the things that I've come to realize
is so many people that I talked to who
claim to be analytical and logical or so
how can I say this so blunt with their
their beliefs about psychedelics right
it's not nuanced at all like people
haven't tried to tease apart the
equation of how healing works people
don't really think about the liminal
space and
and why is dosing important what is
dosing do the different spectrums of
different psychedelics so like I mean
you really blown my mind in terms of the
depth of your knowledge and just how
complicated this stuff is and it makes
sense to me that this is complicated and
if we understand this equation then like
that's really what brings about
transformative healing it's like really
understanding like how this whole
equation works so thank you so much
you're very welcome I do want to say
something back to actually both the the
things that you sort of said right now I
mean yes III totally think that
experiences as long as their
interpersonal can be empathic and
healing and you know I think that III
think of our current mental health
system was born out of a culture that
was already bad at empathizing and so
therefore the system that we created
within it the system of suppression
mimicked the culture and so we're not
getting the healing because the people
who built the system didn't get it and
so I think you know especially you know
I learned to trust myself right and I
can say I know my body I know my
emotions but at some level I always knew
that right like and so I would say well
listening right now that this resonates
with is trust yourself at its deepest
deepest level you know just because
someone has a medical degree or a PhD if
it's really not resonating with you like
they could be completely wrong you know
and so so really the healing is an
ultimate trust of yourself and you know
and just just Rhian and the other thing
you know I just think about in general
whether it's with psychedelics or not is
that the healer that you're working with
can only take you as far as he or she
has done their healing and so you know
and there's a lot of what we call
wounded healers out there meaning people
usually go into the healing fields
because they're wounded and many of
those have not put in the time and the
energy into their own work and so I
think yeah you'll find
people with or without the degrees and
the training that can be healers in your
life the last thing I wanted to say at
least was like it's interesting this
idea of the healer within the video game
because it almost makes me think maybe I
should react video games if there's a
healing avatar maybe I can go in there
Eren good enough we're gonna do we're
gonna do game extreme well in his 56k
connection and he's gonna get crushed
because he lags so hard
done but will on a very practical note
yes so like I think I'm I'm sure
everyone would love to see you play
video games but you know just in terms
of spreading your message if there's any
way we can practically support you all
I'll shoot you a quick email but in
terms of if you want to make videos and
things like that you know we figured a
little bit about how to do that I'm not
saying they're great but you know they
seem to have you know there we have a
lot of views and stuff on YouTube but in
terms of infrastructure and stuff like
that we're happy to support you because
I think you know will I've always
respected you but I think even with our
like last conversation that we had sort
of about reconnecting I mean it's just
so much of what you're saying I want to
like really really actively support
because it's so fascinating to hear
someone come to all of the same
conclusions like you'd be surprised like
I basically say all I mean I feel like I
say a lot of the things that you've said
on stream about so when people ask me I
talk a lot about alexithymia and and
sort of people not recognizing their
where their emotions are and like what
they're feeling and especially for men
like I start with the body first and
foremost because men understand emotions
very easily like they don't understand a
feeling of being rejected ashamed and
unlovable but they do feel yeah man she
like I asked her out and she kicked me
in the nuts like that's what it felt
like and even our language as men in
terms of expressing emotions is very
very physical and then all of the other
men that you're talking to know exactly
what you're feeling and so your emphasis
on sort of the body and and we do like
we do more meditation than yoga on
stream but sometimes we'll do yoga and
stuff like that so I just want to
support your message and thank you so
much for coming on awesome thanks a lot
it was a lot of fun take care do you
have like social stuff that you
people to subscribe to or anything like
that like a Twitter or YouTube or any of
that [ __ ] I mean all I have so far is an
Instagram maybe maybe that's a Boomer
thing but maybe more to come in the feed
I did make a twitch account 0-0 yeah so
let's I mean if you are active on your
Instagram and you want to grow your
Instagram you can tell us what your
Instagram is and then we can people join
it will see you Andy so just my name MB
so WI LSI UMD ok great awesome in all
right take care everyone thanks for
coming on OK twitch chat oh there we go
thanks Moses
okay so that was will wills awesome I'm
a big fan yeah so you know you guys tell
us like you guys want to do a little bit
more of that lest that you know if you
guys want like more people we have more
rights oh okay
yeah will is awesome dude so so you know
it's interesting I think he has a
different impression of when I knew him
so I knew will in his final form which
is his current form I didn't really know
him so he's finished residency I think
in 2014 ages which is the year that I
started so I'm pretty sure he had
relatively long hair and some of those
piercings maybe not quite that many
piercings when I met him
so we'll kind of see ya so thank you
guys very much for coming you know there
are a lot of other guests that we can
think about having on in terms of
offering their expertise on mental
health and and stuff like that
and yeah so let's just think about a
couple of fascinating things that we can
do right like so oh my god so I'm
learning more about psychedelics and I
think it would be cool I would love to
see a clinical trial where people take
gamers and then give them psychedelic
assisted treatment and just see what
happens like in terms of their ability
to re-engage in life like that
very cool interview I mean uh sorry a
very cool trial because I think a big
part of you know what I believe is that
like you know at NASA Sarah is not gonna
fix your problem like an antidepressant
or anti-anxiety medication is not gonna
fix your problem it'll help if you have
depression or anxiety but you really
have to do this like like formative
grounding kind of work right you have to
like get through this stuff and talk
about your some scars talk about your
past Rama's come to terms with them
learn how to grieve learn how to face
shame this is a big part of Dharma and I
know we get a lot of questions about how
do I find my daughter about how do I
find my Dharma and I think the
fascinating thing from will is that like
you guys already know your Dharma like
you've taught yourself you've come to
believe because you have taught yourself
that you don't know what your daughter
Maya is because you the narrative is
that you were directionless and and if
we really think about it what will was
saying I think is really spot-on that
like what we can actually do is like
stop and think about you know when you
have a particular emotion or when you
try to do something and you feel
something like when you try to leave the
house and you feel ashamed about
yourself
what is that shame like where does that
chain come from like what why do you
want to leave the house like explore
those things and in that I think you
will find your daughter Bob yeah I also
really liked his point about like good
emotions and bad emotions right like
it's not shame has become something that
we avoid but like whether it makes it
good or bad and this is also a big point
behind Dharma is that like those
emotions are there right fear is there
it's just about whether you face it and
whether it it pushes you in the right
direction or the wrong direction so you
know I think it's like so much soft land
and it's fascinating to me personally to
hear that Will has come to so many of
the conclusions that like I felt like I
came to myself one is that I never
really thought of myself as a wounded
healer right but like if we think about
it like that actually makes a lot of
sense because for you know like a decade
of my life or more I was a [ __ ] just
socked at life like
game was a game that I was not winning
and and I think that like we
underestimate the value and this is we
underestimate the value of what that can
lead to and just the idea that like I'm
almost beginning to think that when we
think about a successful person and a
person who struggles we place more value
on the successful person the person
who's had always had a 4.0 GPA Lincoln
High School College med school whatever
right and we say that that life is
better than my life because I'm failing
but hearing will it's been fascinating
to think that because I've kind of
always thought this about myself that
the reason that I can help people is
because I've gone through it and and
I've never really realized until today
that like actually the best people to be
potentially psychiatrists or medical
doctors or whatever right are the people
who have struggled and that they have an
advantage over the people who are always
perfect and when I see you guys
struggling like it's so hard for me to
try to convey this I'd love to
transplant this thought from my mind to
your mind but you see your your struggle
as a failure and I see it as like part
of making you who you're supposed to be
and in it just has to happen that way
that's what gutter my is all about this
is your life and this is what's been
given to you and you're gonna live
through it and you're gonna be stronger
because of it like you can't be the
person that life needs you to be the
person that you are and it's hard to
describe but like you know when you
struggle with all the shame if let's say
you have emotionally neglectful parents
or tiger' parents or whatever like you
have to understand that like unless you
had those experiences you're not able to
be the parent that your child your
future child who has yet who is yet to
be born and you have to have sex in
order to do that at some point but you
know cross that bridge when we come to
it
but understand that like your
experiences turn you into the person
that the world needs you to be turns you
into the people that your child needs
you to be
and and whether it's like a friend or
your child or you know a random person
on the internet who your Steam friends
with and the one reason they don't kill
themselves today is because when they
like message you you respond when no one
else in their life responds like just
recognize that right it's not about your
GPA it's not about your income it's not
about any of that [ __ ] it's about the
person that you are and your true self
which no one can take you away from and
it was so fascinating to hear like we'll
say like oh it's so awesome that you're
vulnerable and he's like vulnerable to
what like what does that even like
he abandons that entire premise of
weakness because it's true it's false in
and I try to abandon that premise to you
guys like look at me and you say I'm
different from you but my whole point is
that I'm not right like there's no
difference between me and you like it's
it's abandoning the premise that I am
successful then you were a failure like
I don't think you guys get it like I'm
still the failure that I used to be like
and nothing has changed and and you're
that failure is kind of born out of like
the fertilizer success is born out of
and fertilizer or failure and you guys
are just earlier along I'm 37 and for
those of you feel old like we have to be
careful about comparison but you know
people say like oh I'm 21 and I'm not
going anywhere in life it's like yeah
and like that's that's fine that's okay
that's just part of your journey and
you'll get there you'll get there just
keep trying and listen to what we'll
said and listen to that inner voice and
when you feel shame recognize that it
belongs there that you have every right
to be ashamed and like will says you
have a choice between whether you make
that shame healthy or unhealthy shame
isn't bad right shame is what tells you
like oh if I if I was supposed to stream
today and I like overslept and was like
45 minutes late and then you guys only
got an hour and 15 minutes because we'll
as a patient right now a client like I
should feel shame absolutely and I
should use that shame to correct my
behavior and I used to be late to crap
and I know everyone jokes about me being
like three minutes late or five minutes
late or whatever but like that
punctuality came out of shame of being
like not respecting people's time
and so make it into healthy shame if you
feel a certain way like recognize you
feel that way for a reason recognize
that that's your internal compass like
telling you that something needs to
change and then listen to it and then
make the smallest possible change that
you can don't get confused about like
turning it into a grand transformation
that you're gonna fix yourself today
because will says that too he says it's
not like you take LSD and you're healed
he's like people work over the course of
one month or four months or three months
or whatever and they use psychedelics
like three times and every week they're
in therapy it's a gradual process and so
make one tiny step today like I don't
know what time it is where you guys are
but like do something for yourself today
like in the tiniest little thing so
someone says whom in Panda says what if
I have a shitty compass that that is
that exact exactly what will is saying
that is a false narrative that you
should construct for yourself you don't
have a shitty compass you have a good
compass you just think it's shape pay
attention to it and you'll realize like
oh it's like it's not that like it it
points it it always points the direction
that it's supposed to go it's just you
just don't realize that it's always
pointing East instead of pointing north
the compass works fine it's just not
doing exactly what you think it's doing
you can navigate just as well with a
compass that always points east but if
you think that a compass should always
point north and you don't recognize your
compass for what it is then you're gonna
have a lot of problems but all you need
to do is calibrate and recognize how my
compass always points east so if I
wanted to go north I can still go north
if I want to go east I can go east if I
want to go south or west it works just
as well it's just different
right so you so start start with the
idea that you're not [ __ ] up just like
entertain that notion for a moment Oh
like what if I actually know what I do
want to do what if I know exactly what I
want to do but because of society's
values right like so exactly I forget
exactly what we'll call them like true
values and like inherited values or
something like that instead of
like believing that you know what you
want you just what you want is different
from what you're inherited values are
it's different from what your parents
want you to be it's different from what
everyone at school was so impressed with
some people and you were not that thing
and so you decided Oh like I don't know
what I want because I don't want that no
you know what you want and like this
like this person who says I'm one of my
compasses busted no this is exactly what
was saying there's the part over here
where you believe that your compass is
busted and it hurts and then over here
your compass is right and you're killing
it and then in the middle is the idea
that oh my compass is actually
completely normal but I'm [ __ ] it up
anyway do you guys see that because if
you believe that your compass is busted
you've got an excuse you can retreat
from the pain its lidocaine
oh my compass is busted it's not my
fault it's so much harder to admit to
yourself that I know exactly what I want
and I'm just too weak to get it I
haven't been able to do it yet that's
exactly where you need to go is to say I
know what I want I've always known what
I want but I haven't been able to
accomplish it and also that weakness is
not like oh I'm weak don't use that as
an excuse to like get over here we're
like you're not capable of doing
anything understand that weakness is
something that you can own and that you
can change it's not an attribute on your
character sheet it's like an action that
you can take right if I roll a d20 and I
hit or I miss it's not like I'm a hit or
a miss er that's just on that roll it's
not an attribute on your character sheet
it's just a particular result of a
particular moment in time weakness is
not something that you are it's
something that you are in a moment it's
an outcome it's not an attribute so
don't have the courage to think for a
moment that your compass is not busted
have the courage to think for a moment
that you're not broken and you're
playing you oh but like I don't want to
be broken no you what you want to be is
like
broken and successful what you can't
tolerate it's beautiful
what you can't tolerate is that middle
state so if I am not broken and I'm a
failure I have no excuse because that's
where you like you have to understand
you can't make a change in your life
unless you fundamentally believe that
you have agency to make change and if
you have agency to make change that
makes you responsible if you're
responsible you can't hide behind
anything the problem is that you're
[ __ ] hiding you're hiding from your
power you don't want your power because
if you have power then it's your fault
yeah so like take your power admit it's
your fault and then do better
forgive yourself along the way that goes
a long way right okay
so thank you guys for coming I don't I
guess I should meditate I don't really
feel like meditating I'm riled up but
maybe I should anyway
okay so let's let's make a choice right
now let's choose to not give in to our
feelings of being riled up and not going
to meditate and let's exercise our
agency and do it anyway even if we don't
feel like it no no we're not going to
give in to that right that's exactly
what we want to do so our meditation
today is going to be different though I
want you to don't close your eyes I want
you to in this state think about where
the where your agency lies think about
what you're capable of think about the
thing that you are not doing that you
are capable of that you can absolutely
do
just take a moment and do it with your
eyes open
take a moment to think what is it that
I'm actually what is it that I like
avoid responsibility for that I actually
completely am responsible for it and I
want you guys if you guys have you can
open up notepad or grab a pen and a
paper and I want you to like physically
write it down
okay so I wrote something down now I
want you to close your eyes sit up
straight
and try to see that thing try to see
your agency
try to see your capability
and then try to see your judgment
that you blame yourself for not doing
that thing
you
and try to see your resistance is you
intend to do something what gets in the
way
you
and now notice how hard it is
notice that when you close your eyes and
breathe in and out
again and out
and then
and out one more time
notice how ethereal the judgment and the
resistance are in this moment maybe even
the goal is ethereal
if it feels real to you if it feels
heavy if it feels present then sit with
fat and give it the respect that it
deserves
give your weakness your fear your shame
the respect that it deserves that these
are powerful things within you
but I find myself and not feeling those
things
myself feeling that my resistance in
judgment
he's like a shadow on a wall and
projected to be much larger than it
actually is like a tiny figurine with a
light shining on it casting a gigantic
shadow
that when we stop and we look at the
things that hold us back they're far
smaller than they appear or as you look
you recognize that it is gigantic either
one is fine
you
and now prepare yourself to move forward
if your fears and shames and the things
that hold you back or in reality farce
pother laughs because it's [ __ ]
hilarious
you've been be you're held back by that
big [ __ ] hilarious look at how much
of a noob you are being held back by a
figment of your imagination and then
prepare yourself to take action and if
you're held by it backed by something
that is gigantic gargantuan massive if
the shame or trauma or fear is very real
and very powerful then respect it and in
that respect find forgiveness for
yourself because if it is a ray boss
you're gonna wipe respect that the
challenges and struggles that you face
are real and banya mentis and it
that make you weak to not be able to
climb Mount Everest it's just hard to
climb Mount Everest so find some
forgiveness for yourself
because not everyone climbing Everest
isn't easy doesn't mean that you're
going to give up it just means that you
need to be prepared
it's the final boss and so that little
thing that you think is so easy for you
to do that everyone else does so
effortlessly
whether it's eat a piece of fruit a day
or wake up on time or start that work
that you're procrastinating on recognize
that that is not avarice and that that
is the final boss and that what you need
to overcome it is not judgment towards
yourself not berating yourself for being
a piece of [ __ ] but that you need to
mentally prepare the way that you do for
a final boss check your inventory make
sure you're well stocked on potions make
sure you're not lagging and then get
ready to Zone in new Zone in play your
final boss music and try to do that task
eat a [ __ ] Apple while you listen to
your final boss music because that's all
there is is moments in time there is
only the boss that you face now and give
that final boss everything that you've
got give this moment everything that you
have and see what you can accomplish
recognize that failure is a possibility
in success as a possibility
but the real failure is not zoning in
most of your life your problem is that
you don't Zone in you don't even try so
try to find the smallest nugget of
courage and Zone in
come on back and think concretely for a
moment now we return to the conscious
mind think concretely about what are you
going to do today in the time that you
have do one thing one thing Zone in and
recognize that every minute that goes
past from this moment until when you
Zone in your chances of success decrease
so we're going to raid a CH a chubby
send it
okay and try to do that thing the
smallest thing whatever it is if you
guys feel like procrastinating
procrastinating Chevy take care guys
once again this is Mental Health
Awareness Month we're gonna be trying to
raise some money so if you guys can
donate we'd really appreciate it we're
trying to raise $75,000 to support our
coaching program which hopes to go live
in about ten days to two weeks and we're
gonna try to help people like we're
actually trying to create that
connection that will is talking about so
will says like if you want someone you
need someone in your life who's like
non-judgmental doesn't have to be like a
trained professional
and that's exactly what that's the
spirit behind the coaching program is so
fascinating to hear them say that so
we're trying to train people to do
something like what I do and it turns
out that that's expensive to do so if
you guys can support us we'd really
appreciate it and yeah we have a bunch
of people we've had 500 people apply to
become trained coaches so thank you very
much oh god
wait I can trade because there's an icon
that's covering my stream chocolate no I
can trade what happened